Add Q3 update for the BEST WG (#499)
ossf/tac: TI-reports/2025/2025-Q3-BEST-WG.md

# 2025 Q3 Best Practices WG

## Overview

### **Sub-groups**

* [Guides](https://github.com/ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers/tree/main/docs)  
* [EDU.SIG](https://github.com/ossf/education/)  
* [Memory Safety SIG](https://github.com/ossf/Memory-Safety)  
* [OpenSSF Best Practices Badge](https://www.bestpractices.dev/)  
* [OpenSSF Scorecard](https://github.com/ossf/scorecard)  
* [Best Practices Badge and Developing Secure Software (LFD121) course](https://github.com/ossf/secure-sw-dev-fundamentals)  
* [Security Baseline](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline)  
* [Web (with SWAG)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/)

## **Activity**

### **Best Practices Badge**

#### **Purpose**

* The Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF) Best Practices badge is a way for Free/Libre and Open Source Software (FLOSS) projects to show that they follow best practices. Projects can voluntarily self-certify, at no cost, by using this web application to explain how they follow each best practice.

#### **Status Update**

* Continued maintenance and security updates.   

> * Resolved subtle problem that was preventing ONAP from earning a gold badge.  

Reviewer: Pardon my ignorance, what is ONAP?

* Extremely high number of requests results in logs growing too large to store. The requests are likely caused by content collection for AI training.

**Up Next**

* Continued maintenance.

### **EDU.SIG**

#### **Purpose**

* Deliver Baseline Secure Software Development Education and Certification to All. Provide access to open and widely available education materials to all learners. Materials will be maximally accessible and easy to consume for all learners.

#### **Status Update**

> * LFD121 labs are being translated into Japanese\!  

Reviewer: This is great! Not directly related to the BEST WG, but I'm curious whether this translation work is being done by a contractor or if this being driven by a community member? The SLSA spec has received a few localization requests (incl. Japanese), and it would be great to continue the trend of having OpenSSF resources be available in multiple languages.

* LFD121 \- added warnings about AI-generated code (it can have vulnerabilities including slopsquatting)  
* CRA 101 course "[Understanding the EU CRA](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/express-learning/understanding-the-eu-cyber-resilience-act-cra-lfel1001/)" (LFEL1001) released. Enrollment is 3,111 as of 2025-05-27

#### **Up Next**

> * Initial research into the c[reation of a  "OSS Newbie" class & materials](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/72)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Initial research into the [creation of a  "OSS Newbie" class & materials](https://github.com/ossf/education/issues/72)  
```

* Completed Guides (under maintenance)  
  * [Concise Guide for Developing More Secure Software](https://best.openssf.org/Concise-Guide-for-Developing-More-Secure-Software)  
  * [Concise Guide for Evaluating Open Source Software](https://best.openssf.org/Concise-Guide-for-Evaluating-Open-Source-Software)  
  * [npm Best Practices Guide](https://github.com/ossf/package-manager-best-practices/blob/main/published/npm.md)  
  * [Source Code Management Platform Configuration Best Practices Guide](https://best.openssf.org/SCM-BestPractices/)

#### **Up Next**

* Additional guides based on topics discussed in breakout sessions at DC Policy Summit. Ideas include:  
  * A way to formally declare maintenance/production level intent for OSS project  
  * How to handle freshness of dependencies?   
  * Guidance about testing for OSS projects.  

>   * Guidance on how to ensure that executables match their putative source code. 

Reviewer: This sounds like a potential collaboration opportunity with SLSA.

#### **Current Status**

* Released the Memory Safety Continuum document:   
* Scorecard release of memory safety check (unsafe block check)

#### **Up Next**

* Focus on interoperability and interfacing between memory safe by default and non-memory safe by default languages in software.

### **OpenSSF Scorecard**

#### **Purpose**

* Automate analysis and trust decisions on the security posture of open source projects.  
* Use this data to proactively improve the security posture of the critical projects the world depends on.

#### **Current Status**

* Progress on implementing and testing experimental probes (e.g., memory safety).  
* Discussion on personas and roles of maintainers and consumers in relation to Scorecard.  
* Consideration of including sponsorship in determining maintenance level of a project.

#### **Up Next**

* Make OpenSSF Scorecard (and its GitHub Action) easier to run on groups of repositories  
* Build contributor base  
* Work towards project graduation  
* Request TI funding for security audit  
* Refine project release cadence  
* Align with forthcoming OpenSSF persona work

### **Security Baseline**

> #### **Purpose**
> 
> * The goal of this SIG is to evolve OpenSSF security baseline for Linux Foundation wide adoption.  
> * For OpenSSF adoption of the security baseline, there needs to be a home for tracking the adoption, for maintainers to raise issues to refine the security baseline, merge the baseline back to TAC lifecycle, and for OpenSSF to develop the roadmap for the security baseline. It will provide a venue for early adopters to share their reusable code and findings with other maintainers. The pilot adoption builds the foundation for wider adoption of the security baseline in OpenSSF and in Linux Foundation.  
> * This SIG creates a venue for other participating foundations to help evolve the OpenSSF security baseline into a security baseline that can be applied to a broad range of software-based projects. The group will define the right level of risks that the security baseline is applicable for, the effectiveness measurement of the security baseline, and the adoption path of the security baseline at the minimum.
> 
> #### **Current Status**
> 
> * Security Baseline has been released.  
> * Collaboration with pilot projects, but more feedback from other projects alway welcome.  
> * A (prototype) tool for scanning GitHub repositories against Baseline requirements has been implemented. Discussion with Scorecard and all other tools related to Baseline regarding future evolution and collaboration is ongoing.
> 
> #### **Up Next**
> 
> * Lots of presentations about Baseline scheduled to create awareness and solicit feedback.  
> * Baseline will be part of the next CNCF Security Slam.
> 
> ### **Web Developer Security Guide**
> 
> #### **Purpose**
> 
> * Develop security best practice and guidelines specifically aimed at web developers.
> 
> #### **Current Status**
> 
> * The W3C SWAG group is actively working on reviewing and creating material for web developers, including  
>   * a [Security Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/blob/main/docs/security_guidelines.md) document, and   
>   * a [Libraries Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/pull/10) document.  
> * The group is holding weekly calls. The calls are minuted here: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/w3c-cg/swag/tree/main/meetings).  
> * Call for participation by OpenSSF contributors and ongoing conversations on how to foster cross-collaboration.  
> * Videos & Blog Post on XSS  
>   * New blog posts on XSS : [https://www.w3.org/blog/2025/how-to-protect-your-web-applications-from-xss/](https://www.w3.org/blog/2025/how-to-protect-your-web-applications-from-xss/) protection including link to a YouTube playlist of the guest lectures from Google folks late last year on XSS and some tooling for developers: [https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLNhYw8KaLq2Wr27HLfSTD4d6JpC3G0PVr](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLNhYw8KaLq2Wr27HLfSTD4d6JpC3G0PVr)   
> * Working towards June “deadline” (presentation proposed at both SOSS community day NA and EU)  
> * New members of the group include Bytedance, Capital One and Samsung
> 
> #### **Up Next**
> 
> * We anticipate starting work on the libraries doc after the new year and as well continue to develop the web developer guide. Both documents will be at the level of detail of the "concise guide" document. We also held a special call where some Google security folks came to talk about tooling they are building around CSP and Trusted Types. Those talks will be posted shortly.
> 
> ## Questions/Issues for the TAC
> 
> * none
> 
> ## **Additional Information**
> 
> * New topics for collaboration were discussed at the [DC Policy Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openssf-policy-summit-dc/) in a [break-out session](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XzlTmDBPBpUPzVEE2ftOOwcqNRV1hqIPaeJSJk__ksE/edit):  
>   * Improving component updates  
>   * A structured approach to declaring an open source project’s maintenance or production status  
>   * Self-attest disagreements in security scans  
>   * Ensuring that executables match their claimed source code  
> * We expect close collaboration between the Best Practices WG and the newly created [Global Cyber Policy WG](https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy).
> 
> ## **Previous Updates**
> 
> * [Q4 2024](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/TI-reports/2024/2024-Q4-BEST-WG.md)  
> * [Q3 2024](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/TI-reports/2024/2024-Q3-BEST-WG.md)  
> * [April 2024](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XjaJa2yxWgRmXhpv0N1_oPG23JPpJY_9zpSOMvqccUM/)  
> * [Dec 2023](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A8Sxm1L3_GcWZqaXepqT1Pj-1sULzUG7fRkCP5tTr24/)  
> * [Sept 2023](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BPSYzk9J33Xl08uekuDBlgJjhiJIMt5B_eBvZ9PetIo/)
> 

Reviewer 2: @balteravishay: Remove accidentally included content of the Q2 update.

```suggestion
```
